# ABTAS

Aquatic Bio-Telemetry Analysis Software (ABTAS) for use in removing false positive and overlap detections from aquatic radio telemetry projects.

# Introduction
ABTAS, Kleinschmidt’s radio telemetry analysis software is comprised a suite of Python scripts and an importable python module (abtas.py).  Each of the scripts carries out a task one may have when analyzing radio telemetry data, including: creating a standardized project database, importing raw data directly from receiver downloads, identifying and removing false positive detections, cross validating and assessing the quality of training data, producing an array of standard project statistics (no. recaptured at receiver, etc.), removing overlap between neighboring receivers with larger detection zones, and producing data appropriate for analysis with Competing Risks and Mark Recapture (Cormack Jolly Seber and Live Recapture Dead Recover) methods.  In future iterations of the software, we will replace the functional sample scripts with a Jupyter Notebook to guide users through training, classification, and data preparation.

The scripts in their current form take advantage of the multiprocessing module when necessary to make the data filtering process more efficient.  When activated, all system resources will be utilized unless otherwise directed by the end user.  **It is not recommended to create more processes than CPUs in your computer, please understand the limitations of your machine before proceeding.**

Radio telemetry projects create vast quantities of data, especially those that employ in-water beacon tags.  Therefore, it is advised to have at least 10 GB of hard disk space to store raw, intermediate, and final data products, and at least 8 GB of RAM.  To handle this data, the software creates a SQLite project database.  SQLite is an in-process library that implements a self-contained, server-less, zero configuration, transactional SQL database engine (SQLite, 2017).  More importantly, SQLite can handle simultaneous reads, so it is well-suited for write-once, read-many largescale data analysis projects that employ parallel processing across multiple cores.  To view the SQLite project database download either: [sqlite browser](http://sqlitebrowser.org/) or [sqlite studio](https://sqlitestudio.pl/index.rvt) .  Both SQLite viewers can execute SQL statements, meaning you can create a query and export to csv file from within the database viewer.  They are not that different from Microsoft Access, users familiar with databases will have an easy transition into SQLite.
